# Deep Vision Project: Artist Identification and generating new paintings using DC-GAN
**Abstract**

Artist identification is the task of identifying the artist of a painting given no other information about it. This is an important requirement for cataloguing art, especially as art is increasingly digitized. Art historians and curators who have expertise and familiarity with different artists and styles of art typically perform artist identification. This is a complex and interesting problem for computers because identifying an artist does not just require object or face detection; but to understand the pattern, style of the paintings as artists can paint a wide variety of objects and scenes. As Convolutional Neural Networks are widely used to perform image classification due to their high effectiveness, in this project, we use these models to conduct artist classification. In order to save training time, we use pretained models, since these models have proved their universality at classifying images[8]. We have chosen ResNet models since they are pretty fast and require less resources than VGG or inception models. Image generation has been a well studied research problem in computer vision. Generative Adversarial Networks are nowdays a powerful tool to generate new novel data. In our project for our second task, we apply an architecture called DC-GAN [5] to obtain new paintings given a constraint on the Data Set, this constraint facilitates the training process and improves the results as we show later.

**Evaluation of GAN**

We used ResNet34 model to extract features from images generated for sample based evaluation of GAN. We plot the three metrics (Inception score, mode score, and FID score for all our trained models to generate novel paintings in order to measure the performance of GANs quantitatively. It is said that lower FID scores mean better image quality and diversity. In our plots below, we see that the FID score decreases with the increase of the number of epochs. FID is also considered to be more robust to noise than Inception score. We show just the evaluations for the tests with better outcomes, it does not worth to evaluate or show results about tests that we already know that they are unsatisfactory.

**Conclusion**

The results from the evaluation part has shown that how well the CNN’s models, ResNet18 and ResNet34 to be more specific, are at classifying images, reaching accuray of around 85%, which is quite phenomenal.
The DC-GAN model has performed differently depending on which kind of paintings we want to generate. This demonstrates that the model does not generalize at all, and by contrast, performs very well in landscapes or portraits but not trying to learn an artist style for instance.
We see that the FID scores decreases with the number of epochs, as we know that lower FID scores mean better image quality and diversity. Thus, we can conclude that the GAN model has been able to generate better quality images as the number of epochs increase for the landscapes and the entire training set. In future work, we would like to try other state-of-the art GANs models and evalaute the GAN by applying a classification task on the new generated images, compare the qualitative results of the generated paintings and identify which models are better depending on the type of the paintwork. We may also consider to augment the dataset by using different cropping and flipping techniques to increase the dataset for a particular painter in order to generate novel paintings based on a particular artist’s style.
